1. React is a library (has a lot of function), in js we have eval 
2. React has reusable components , we create a function for the repeated portion and then 3. we can simply import and call it
4. virtual dom is the copy of original dom
5. there are libraries to manage states
6. declarative in nature



App.jsx is the component to the main.jsx file  and main.jsx file is nothing but just simple a script file to the index.html and index .html is the main first file renders on the client browser

CreateRoot lets you create a root which is used to render the components on the browser. It takes two parameters createroot(dom node , options)

Functional component is a function that returns some HTML and to call a fucntional component we need to just write it in self-closing angle tag for eg. <App />


JSX - Syntax extension for javascript - markup lang. html in javascript

when you return any markup it should only return one markup tag, if oy don't want it then you can use react fragment means <> and </> tht would act as a root tag
All Tgas should be close 


FUNCTIONAL COMPONENTS :-
1. fucntion returning some markup is functional component.
2. functional component name should start with a capital letter


Styling CSS-
1. inline style (style = { {display:flex and so on...} })
2. external style (import "file path")

HOOKS :-
1. when there is something change in UI like clicking on autton , typing something in textfield or input field, an event is occured and a new value is being generated and thus we can't store it in some variable. so, we need to use something called state management.The values stored in variables can be shown to the ui if the page is rerendered and and as we are not rerendering the page the value can't be displayed on the screen, so we use hooks
Hooks always starts with the word use.... and useState returns an state value and a function to alter it.
Hooks can only be called inside a fucntional component and not outside of it


PROPS :-
props is used to pass value from parent component to child component
So how values are being passed ? we paased the common param to the child components from the parent components and all child component's callback function have internally a props parameter which store the arguments being passed to it in object format and thus we can destructure it either using bracket notation or dot notation.

USESTATE();
const [state,setState] = useState();
the above syntax contains a single parameter of any type in useState function which is considered as the initial value of the state variable 

USEREF();
const ref = useRef("prakash")
this react hook is used to store some values which is not required to be render on the view like the timeRef in stopwatch example, if we use a timerId as local variable then while rerendering the page , dom will re-initialize it to its original value , and thus value of the variable is gone. so to prevent it , we use useRef which returns me an object and it has a built in object property named as current and the parameter in the useRef method is optional and if given, then it is considered as the initial value to the current property like in useState.


Virtual DOM(Document Object Model) :-
react creates a same copy of the dom and make changes into it whenever a state is change and the it is compare with real dom and renders only that part of the ui and this is called as Reconciliation using diffing algorithm.